1. What do you mean by glm?
Ans: Generalised linear model (glm) is an extension of usual regression models through a
link function.

2. What is the role of random components in the glm model?
Ans: A random component identifies the dependent variable (response) and its probability
distribution in the glm model.

3. What is the role of the systematic component in the glm model?
Ans: A systematic component identifies a set of explanatory variables in the glm model.

4. What is the role of the link function in the glm model?
Ans: The link function defines the relationship between a random and systematic component
in the glm model.

1. What do you mean by LR?
Ans: Logistic regression (LR) is an extension of linear regression to environments that contain a categorical dependent variable.
 
2. Which function is used to implement LR?
Ans: The glm() function is used to implement LR.
 
3. What are the uses of LR?
Ans: Logistic regression is used to solve classification problems, discrete choice models and
to find the probability of an event.
 
4. What is BLR?
Ans: Binomial or binary logistic regression (BLR) is a model in which the dependent variable
is dichotomous.

5. What are the parameters of the logit function?
Ans: Odds and odds ratio are the two parameters of the logit function.

6. What is MLE?
Ans: Maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) estimates the parameters of a function in LR. For a given dataset, MLE chooses the values of model parameters that make the data ‘more likely’ than other parameter values.

7. What is a likelihood function?
Ans: Likelihood function [L(b)] represents the joint probability or likelihood of observing
the collected data.
 
8. Which functions are used to find out the likelihood function?
Ans: The nlm() and optim() functions are used to find out the likelihood function.

9. Which function is used to find MLE?
Ans: The mle() of the package ‘stats4’ is used to find out MLE.

2. What is a three-way contingency table?
Ans: A three-way contingency table contains cross-classification of observations that use the
level of three categorical variables.

3. What is a covariate variable?
Ans: A covariate variable is a simple variable that predicts the outcome of another variable.

4. List the names of major statistical methods used to check the goodness of statistics of
the BLR model.
Ans: Some major statistical methods used to check the goodness of statistics of the BLR
model are:
Pearson chi-square statistic [X2]
Deviance [G2]
Likelihood ratio test and statistic [DG2]
Hosmer-Lemeshow test and statistic

1. What is Pearson residual?
Ans: Pearson residual assesses how predictors are transformed during the fitting process. It
uses mean and standard deviation for assessment.

2. What is deviance residual?
Ans: Deviance residual is the best diagnostic measure when individual points are not fitting
well by the model.

3. What is ‘LogisticDx’?
Ans: ‘LogisticDx’ is an R package that provides functions for diagnosing the LR model.

4. What are the major diagnostic functions of the ‘LogisticDx’ package?
Ans: dx(), gof(), or(), and plot.glm() are some major diagnostic functions of the
‘LogisticDx’ package.

5. What is the use of gof()?
Ans: The gof() function of ‘LogisticDx’ package checks the goodness-of-fit tests for the LR
model. 

1. What do you mean by MLR?
Ans: MLR or multinomial logistic regression is a type of linear regression where more than
two levels of independent variables predict the outcome of the dependent variable.

2. What is the use of multinom() function?
Ans: The multinom() function is an inbuilt function of the ‘nnet’ package of R that
implements MLR
