1. What is the difference between univariate and multivariate time series?
Ans: A univariate time series is a type of time series that uses a single quantity for describing
values. A multivariate time series is a type of time series that uses more than a single
quantity for describing values.

2. List the names of some basic R commands used for visualisation of time series data.
Ans: plot(), hist(), boxplot(), pie(), abline(), qqnorm(), stripchart(), and
curve() are some R commands used for visualisation of time series data.

3. List the names of some basic R commands used for the manipulation of time series data.
Ans: means(), sd(), log(), diff(), pnorm(), and qnorm() are some R commands
used for the manipulation of time series data.

4. What is filter() function?
Ans: The filter() function performs the linear filtering of time series data and generates
the time series of the given data.

1. What is scan() function?
Ans: The scan() function reads the data from any file. Since time series data contains data
with respect to a successive time interval, it is the best function for reading it.

2. What is the ts() function?
Ans: The ts() function stores time series data and creates the time series object.

4. What is the decompose() function?
Ans: The decompose() function is used for the decomposition of the seasonal time series.
It decomposes the time series into the seasonal, trend and irregular components and
smooths time series data by calculating the moving averages.

5. What is ARIMA model?
Ans: ARIMA (Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average) is another method of time series
forecasting. The ARIMA model explicitly defines the irregular component of a stationary
time series with non-zero autocorrelation. It is represented by ARIMA(p,d,q) where
parameters p, d and q define the autoregression (AR) order, the degree of differencing
and the moving average (MA) order, respectively.

2. What is the use of acf() and pacf() functions in ARIMA modelling?
Ans: The acf() and pacf() functions determine the actual values of the autocorrelation [q] and partial autocorrelation [p] of the time series, respectively, for an ARIMA(p, q, r) model.

3. What is the use of the forecast.Arima() function?
Ans: The forecast.Arima() function makes the forecasting of the given time series using
an ARIMA model. The function is available in the package “forecast”.